Misc changes (#328)
acend/container-basics-training: content/en/docs/10/01/_index.md

sectionnumber: 10.1
---

Often you're going to use some kind of libraries, tools or dependencies during the build phase of your application that are not necessary during the execution time of the container. We want to keep the actual artifact as independent and small as possible. So we often remove these dependencies in the docker build phase after the application itself is built.

> Since docker version 17.05 there is a solution for that problem: the so called multi stage-builds.

Reviewer: Looks like this was 5 years ago, I think we can safely remove the version information.

```suggestion
There is a solution to that problem: The so called multi-stage build.
```

Author: removed

If the application is not available as a prebuilt artifact, in many cases, the application itself gets built directly during the docker build process `docker build -t ...`

### Examples

Let's have a look at some examples:

#### Java Spring Boot Gradle build

> The complete example can be found at <https://github.com/appuio/example-spring-boot-helloworld>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The complete example can be found at <https://github.com/appuio/example-spring-boot-helloworld>.
```

Read more about Docker multi-stage builds at <https://docs.docker.com/develop/develop-images/multistage-build/>

## Optional Lab: Create a multi-stage build

Turn the docker build from the first example (Java Spring boot <https://github.com/appuio/example-spring-boot-helloworld>) into a docker multistage build.

As a second image you can use `registry.access.redhat.com/ubi9/openjdk-17-runtime`. Try to find the solution before looking at it.

{{% details title="Show me the solution" %}}
```Dockerfile
FROM registry.access.redhat.com/ubi9/openjdk-17

LABEL org.opencontainers.image.authors="midcicd@puzzle.ch" \
      io.k8s.description="APPUiO Example Spring Boot App" \

>       io.k8s.display-name="APPUiO Spring Boot App" \

Author: agree
